oci_set_prefetch

(PHP 5, PECL OCI8 >= 1.1.0)

oci_set_prefetch â€” Sets number of rows to be prefetched by queries

==============================================================================
*Description*

    bool oci_set_prefetch ( resource $statement , int $rows )~

Sets the number of rows to be buffered by the Oracle Client libraries after a
successful query call to |oci_execute| and for each subsequent internal fetch
request to the database. For queries returning a large number of rows,
performance can be significantly improved by increasing the prefetch count
above the default oci8.default_prefetch value.

Prefetching is Oracle's efficient way of returning more than one data row from
the database in each network request. This can result in better network and
CPU utilization. The buffering of rows is internal to OCI8 and the behavior of
OCI8 fetching functions is unchanged regardless of the prefetch count. For
example, |oci_fetch_row| will always return one row. The prefetch buffer is
per-statement and is not used by re-executed statements or by other
connections.

Call oci_set_prefetch() before calling |oci_execute|.

A tuning goal is to set the prefetch value to a reasonable size for the
network and database to handle. For queries returning a very large number of
rows, overall system efficiency might be better if rows are retrieved from the
database in several chunks (i.e set the prefetch value smaller than the number
of rows). This allows the database to handle other users' statements while the
PHP script is processing the current set of rows.

Query prefetching was introduced in Oracle 8i. REF CURSOR prefetching was
introduced in Oracle 11gR2 and occurs when PHP is linked with Oracle 11gR2 (or
later) Client libraries. Nested cursor prefetching was introduced in Oracle 11
gR2 and requires both the Oracle Client libraries and the database to be
version 11gR2 or greater.

Prefetching is not supported when queries contain LONG or LOB columns. The
prefetch value is ignored and single-row fetches will be used in all the
situations when prefetching is not supported.

When using Oracle Database 12c, the prefetch value set by PHP can be
overridden by Oracle's client oraaccess.xml configuration file. Refer to
Oracle documentation for more detail.

==============================================================================
*Parameters*

{statement}

    A valid OCI8 statement identifier created by |oci_parse| and executed by 
    |oci_execute|, or a REF CURSOR statement identifier.

{rows}

    The number of rows to be prefetched, >= 0

==============================================================================
*Return* *Values*

Returns TRUE on success or FALSE on failure.

==============================================================================
*Changelog*

  Version                               Description
5.3.2 (PECL  Before this release, {rows} must be >= 1.
OCI8 1.4)
5.3.0 (PECL  Before this release, prefetching was limited to the lesser of
OCI8 1.3.4)  {rows} rows and 1024 * {rows} bytes. The byte size restriction
             has now been removed.

==============================================================================
*Examples*

Example #1 Changing the default prefetch value for a query

<?php >

    $conn = oci_connect('hr', 'welcome', 'localhost/XE');

    $stid = oci_parse($conn, 'SELECT * FROM myverybigtable');
    oci_set_prefetch($stid, 300);  // Set before calling oci_execute()
    oci_execute($stid);

    echo "<table border='1'>\n";
    while ($row = oci_fetch_array($stid, OCI_ASSOC+OCI_RETURN_NULLS)) {
        echo "<tr>\n";
        foreach ($row as $item) {
            echo "    <td>".($item !== null ? htmlentities($item, ENT_QUOTES) : "&
    nbsp;")."</td>\n";
        }
        echo "</tr>\n";
    }
    echo "</table>\n";

    oci_free_statement($stid);
    oci_close($conn);

<?>

Example #2 Changing the default prefetch for a REF CURSOR fetch

<?php >
    /*
      Create the PL/SQL stored procedure as:

      CREATE OR REPLACE PROCEDURE myproc(p1 OUT SYS_REFCURSOR) AS
      BEGIN
        OPEN p1 FOR SELECT * FROM all_objects WHERE ROWNUM < 5000;
      END;
    */

    $conn = oci_connect('hr', 'welcome', 'localhost/XE');

    $stid = oci_parse($conn, 'BEGIN myproc(:rc); END;');
    $refcur = oci_new_cursor($conn);
    oci_bind_by_name($stid, ':rc', $refcur, -1, OCI_B_CURSOR);
    oci_execute($stid);

    // Change the prefetch before executing the cursor.
    //
     REF CURSOR prefetching works when PHP is linked with Oracle 11gR2 or later Client libraries
    oci_set_prefetch($refcur, 200);
    oci_execute($refcur);

    echo "<table border='1'>\n";
    while ($row = oci_fetch_array($refcur, OCI_ASSOC+OCI_RETURN_NULLS)) {
        echo "<tr>\n";
        foreach ($row as $item) {
            echo "    <td>".($item !== null ? htmlentities($item, ENT_QUOTES) : "&
    nbsp;")."</td>\n";
        }
        echo "</tr>\n";
    }
    echo "</table>\n";

    oci_free_statement($refcur);
    oci_free_statement($stid);
    oci_close($conn);

<?>

If PHP OCI8 fetches from a REF CURSOR and then passes the REF CURSOR back to a
second PL/SQL procedure for further processing, then set the REF CURSOR
prefetch count to 0 to avoid rows being "lost" from the result set. The
prefetch value is the number of extra rows fetched in each OCI8 internal
request to the database, so setting it to 0 means only fetch one row at a
time.

Example #3 Setting the prefetch value when passing a REF CURSOR back to Oracle

<?php >

    $conn = oci_connect('hr', 'welcome', 'localhost/orcl');

    // get the REF CURSOR
    $stid = oci_parse($conn, 'BEGIN myproc(:rc_out); END;');
    $refcur = oci_new_cursor($conn);
    oci_bind_by_name($stid, ':rc_out', $refcur, -1, OCI_B_CURSOR);
    oci_execute($stid);

    // Display two rows, but don't prefetch any extra rows otherwise
    // those extra rows would not be passed back to myproc_use_rc().
    // A prefetch value of 0 is allowed in PHP 5.3.2 and PECL OCI8 1.4
    oci_set_prefetch($refcur, 0);
    oci_execute($refcur);
    $row = oci_fetch_array($refcur);
    var_dump($row);
    $row = oci_fetch_array($refcur);
    var_dump($row);

    // pass the REF CURSOR to myproc_use_rc() to do more data processing
    // with the result set
    $stid = oci_parse($conn, 'begin myproc_use_rc(:rc_in); end;'); 
    oci_bind_by_name($stid, ':rc_in', $refcur, -1, OCI_B_CURSOR);
    oci_execute($stid);

<?>

==============================================================================
*See* *Also*

  * oci8.default_prefetch ini option


vim:ft=help: