sqlite_create_aggregate

SQLiteDatabase::createAggregate

(PHP 5 < 5.4.0, PECL sqlite >= 1.0.0)

sqlite_create_aggregate -- SQLiteDatabase::createAggregate â€” Register an
aggregating UDF for use in SQL statements

==============================================================================
*Description*

    void sqlite_create_aggregate ( resource $dbhandle , string $function_name~
    , callable $step_func , callable $finalize_func [, int $num_args = -1 ] )~

Object oriented style (method):

    public void SQLiteDatabase::createAggregate ( string $function_name ,~
    callable $step_func , callable $finalize_func [, int $num_args = -1 ] )~

sqlite_create_aggregate() is similar to |sqlite_create_function| except that
it registers functions that can be used to calculate a result aggregated
across all the rows of a query.

The key difference between this function and |sqlite_create_function| is that
two functions are required to manage the aggregate; {step_func} is called for
each row of the result set. Your PHP function should accumulate the result and
store it into the aggregation context. Once all the rows have been processed,
{finalize_func} will be called and it should then take the data from the
aggregation context and return the result. Callback functions should return a
type understood by SQLite (i.e. scalar type).

==============================================================================
*Parameters*

{dbhandle}

    The SQLite Database resource; returned from |sqlite_open| when used
    procedurally. This parameter is not required when using the
    object-oriented method.

{function_name}

    The name of the function used in SQL statements.

{step_func}

    Callback function called for each row of the result set. Function
    parameters are &$context, $value, ....

{finalize_func}

    Callback function to aggregate the "stepped" data from each row. Function
    parameter is &$context and the function should return the final result of
    aggregation.

{num_args}

    Hint to the SQLite parser if the callback function accepts a predetermined
    number of arguments.

==============================================================================
*Return* *Values*

No value is returned.

==============================================================================
*Examples*

Example #1 max_length aggregation function example

<?php >
    $data = array(
       'one',
       'two',
       'three',
       'four',
       'five',
       'six',
       'seven',
       'eight',
       'nine',
       'ten',
       );
    $dbhandle = sqlite_open(':memory:');
    sqlite_query($dbhandle, "CREATE TABLE strings(a)");
    foreach ($data as $str) {
        $str = sqlite_escape_string($str);
        sqlite_query($dbhandle, "INSERT INTO strings VALUES ('$str')");
    }

    function max_len_step(&$context, $string) 
    {
        if (strlen($string) > $context) {
            $context = strlen($string);
        }
    }

    function max_len_finalize(&$context) 
    {
        return $context;
    }

    sqlite_create_aggregate($dbhandle, 'max_len', 'max_len_step', 
    'max_len_finalize');

    var_dump(sqlite_array_query($dbhandle, 'SELECT max_len(a) from strings'));

<?>

In this example, we are creating an aggregating function that will calculate
the length of the longest string in one of the columns of the table. For each
row, the max_len_step function is called and passed a {context} parameter. The
context parameter is just like any other PHP variable and be set to hold an
array or even an object value. In this example, we are simply using it to hold
the maximum length we have seen so far; if the {string} has a length longer
than the current maximum, we update the context to hold this new maximum
length.

After all of the rows have been processed, SQLite calls the max_len_finalize
function to determine the aggregate result. Here, we could perform some kind
of calculation based on the data found in the {context}. In our simple example
though, we have been calculating the result as the query progressed, so we
simply need to return the context value.

    Note:

    The example above will not work correctly if the column contains binary
    data. Take a look at the manual page for |sqlite_udf_decode_binary| for an
    explanation of why this is so, and an example of how to make it respect
    the binary encoding.

Tip

It is NOT recommended for you to store a copy of the values in the context and
then process them at the end, as you would cause SQLite to use a lot of memory
to process the query - just think of how much memory you would need if a
million rows were stored in memory, each containing a string 32 bytes in
length.

Tip

You can use |sqlite_create_function| and sqlite_create_aggregate() to override
SQLite native SQL functions.

==============================================================================
*See* *Also*

  * |sqlite_create_function| - Registers a "regular" User Defined Function for
    use in SQL statements
  * |sqlite_udf_encode_binary| - Encode binary data before returning it from
    an UDF
  * |sqlite_udf_decode_binary| - Decode binary data passed as parameters to an
    UDF


vim:ft=help: